# Background

The Edge system allows the customer to define a conversion event for each campaign, which allows them to count the number of conversions. For example, a customer trying to sell a specific product with a campaign will count the number of users who engaged with that campaign and purchased the product.

This approach works well when the product sold is more or less uniform. There are cases, however, that products are not uniform in nature, and the amount purchased could also vary widely between customers.

## Benefit for Customers

The customers will be able to assign an actual dollar value to campaigns, and by which understand the effectiveness of promotion campaigns (rather than engagement campaigns).

## Current State

Currently the Edge system supports only conversion events. There is no way to allow collecting different conversion value per event.

## User stories

- As a Client Marketing manager I would like to know what is the revenue generated by a campaign.

# Problem

The problem for customers such as Evest is that counting the conversion events doesn’t provide a good enough proxy to the value generated of the campaign (to quote the request - “They need to see the campaigns conversion value somewhere in the console / dashboard”).

The specific request is for deposits. They use campaigns to drive up deposits into their applications, and rather than whether the user made the deposit, it is important for them to know how much was the deposit, mostly so they could calculate cost effectiveness of campaigns.

We would like to provide them with an integrated solution that will allow them to place a more accurate evaluation on their campaigns’ value generation.

The desired result, to put as simply as possible, is a the sum of the monetary value of each conversion event for any given campaign.

## How others implement it
| Platform | Conversion Value Services |
| --- | --- |
| Salesforce Marketing Cloud | Custom fields for assigning values to conversion events |
| HubSpot | Custom properties for associating values with conversion goals |
| Zoho CRM | Custom fields for assigning values to conversion events |
| Marketo | Value options for defining conversion goals |
| Pardot | Goal values for tracking revenue generated by conversions |
| Act-On | Revenue attribution for conversion goals |
| TapClicks | Conversion value tracking (may require additional analysis for cumulative value) |
| Bizible | Revenue attribution modeling (may require additional analysis for cumulative value) |
| Source attribution by Shopify Plus | Order value attribution for ecommerce campaigns (may require additional analysis for cumulative value) |
| Google Analytics 360 (with custom configuration) | Custom event values with potential for roll-up to goals (might require Measurement Protocol API) |
| Adobe Analytics (with custom configuration) | Properties for assigning values to events (might require custom reports) |
| Braze | Custom User Attributes for assigning monetary values to user profiles. Can be used with in-app purchases or other conversion events to track total customer value. |
| AppsFlyer | Focuses on install attribution. While it doesn't offer native conversion value tracking, it integrates with various CRM and marketing automation platforms that allow for value assignment. |


# Appetite

Even with the minimalistic approach, this feature will take, in total, at least six weeks.

# Solution

To address the immediate needs of our waiting customer, we're prioritizing a **minimum viable solution (MVS)** which focuses on three key areas:

1. **Edge SDK Updates:** The SDK teams will integrate a conversion value into reported conversion events. The value will either be provided in the custom micro-moment, or have the value included as the *Monetary Value* in the *Measurement* page of the campaign creation flow. This value will be included in the campaign trigger reports.
   1. Additionally, different conversion values might be beneficial for campaigns which convert on Page Visits or Onboarding events. 
2. **Backend Enhancements:** On the backend, the system will be configured to collect conversion values and provide the aggregate results via an API, the exact same way other metrics are aggregated today.
3. **Frontend** **Enhancements**: When displaying a detailed view of a campaign (in the accordion), the sum total of the conversions will be included. Additionally the *Analytics* page will display the *Conversion Value* tab that will display the conversion values for the selected campaigns. The value will be displayed according the truncation and unit rules already applied in the *Analytics* page.



4. Additionally, the value will be displayed in the *Dashboard* page to the right of the *Conversions* tab (the total value of all the campaigns)





Done reading? Click here. → Elad Ben-Tzedeff, Moti Bartov, Ilan Malka

Elad Ben-Tzedeff, Moti Bartov, Ilan Malka I’m aligned with the problems & goals

 I’m not aligned

 I’m aligned with the problem but not the solution



# Feedback

Add feedback

| Done | What is it that you want to share? | Author | Vote | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |